Basic emacs(1) cheats
==================

## Yasnippets

`C-i` or `TAB` (with hippie) for expanding

## Commands to Manipulate Windows

`C-v`     scroll-up.<br>
`M-v`     scroll-down.<br>
`C-x o`               other-window.<br>
`C-x 1`               delete-other-windows.<br>
`C-x 0`               delete-window.<br>
`C-x 2`               split-window-vertically.<br>
`C-x 3`               split-window-horizontally.<br>
`C-M-v`               scroll-other-window. <br>

## Infinite Undo with Redo
`C-_`        undo. (Also C-x u and C-/)

## Motion and Objects

`C-f   `   forward-char. Moves forward (to the right) over a character.<br>
`C-b   `   backward-char. Moves backward (to the left) over a character.<br>
`M-f   `   forward-word. Moves forward over a word.<br>
`M-b   `   backward-word. Moves backward over a word.<br>
`C-n   `   next-line. Moves down to the next line.<br>
`C-p   `   previous-line. Moves up to the previous line.<br>
`C-a   `   beginning-of-line. Moves to the beginning of the current line.<br>
`C-e   `   end-of-line. Moves to the end of the current line.<br>
`M-a   `   backward-sentence. Moves to the beginning of the current sentence.<br>
`M-e   `   forward-sentence. Moves to the end of the current sentence.<br>
`M-{   `   backward-paragraph. Move to the beginning of the current paragraph.<br>
`M-}   `   forward-paragraph. Move to the end of the current paragraph.<br>
`M-<   `   beginning-of-buffer. Moves to the beginning of the buffer.<br>
`M->   `   end-of-buffer. Moves to the end of the buffer.<br>
`C-x [ `   backward-page. Moves to the beginning of the current page.<br>
`C-x ] `   forward-page. Moves to the end of the current page.<br>

## Deleting, Killing and Yanking
Deletion means to remove text from the buffer without saving it.
Killing means to save the removed text, so that it can be yanked back later someplace else.

`C-d          `  delete-char.<br>
`DEL          `  delete-backward-char.<br>
`M-d          `  kill-word.<br>
`C-k          `  kill-line. Kills to the end of the current line.<br>
`M-k          `  kill-sentence. Kills to the end of the current sentence.<br>
`C-M-k        `  kill-sexp. Kills the sexp after the cursor.<br>
`M-DEL        `  backward-kill-word.<br>
`C-u 0 C-k    `  kill-line. Kills to the beginning of the current line.<br>
`C-u -1 C-k   `  kill-line. Kills to the beginning of the current line, and previous newline character.<br>
`C-u -1 M-k   `  kill-sentence. Kills to the beginning of the current sentence.<br>
`C-u -1 C-M-k `  kill-sexp. Kills the sexp before the cursor.<br>

##  Help

`C-h a`  command-apropos.  List commands matching the given name or regexp.<br>
`C-h f`  describe-function.  Show documentation on the given function.<br>
`C-h v`  describe-variable.  Show documentation on the given variable.<br>
`C-h c`  describe-key-briefly.  Name the function bound to the given key sequence.<br>
`C-h k`  describe-key.  Show documentation for the function bound to the given key sequence.<br>
`C-h w`  where-is.      Show key sequences bound to the given command name.<br>
`C-h m`  describe-mode. Documentation on the current major mode.<br>
`C-h l`  view-lossage.  Show the last 100 keystrokes.<br>

C-h after any prefix key will display all available shortcuts under that prefix.

## Email VM
http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/ViewMailQuickStart#toc14
http://www.nongnu.org/viewmail/
http://www.cv.nrao.edu/~pmurphy/Talks/emacsvm/vm.html#SEC6
http://web.psung.name/emacstips/vm.html#dotvm
http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/windows/old/faq8.html

## Errors

VM SAYS "FOLDER IS READ-ONLY":
You have probably made your folder "read only" by pressing control-x
control-q. This is easy to do by accident! You can tell when this has
happened because the xemacs mode line will say "read-only" somewhere. To
fix, just press control-x control-q again, to return your mail folder to
normal.
From <http://www.lib.uchicago.edu/keith/tcl-course/emacs-tutorial.html>

